# alfredo-bicycle

This is a case study about a fictional bike-sharing company, Cyclistic. The company grew exponentially over the previous year, and both the marketing analytics and executive teams wanted to know more about how their users were interacting with their product offerings, and how they could improve upon them.
More specifically, this case study aims to answer the question; "How do annual members and casual riders use Cyclistic bikes differently?" After obtaining the most recent twelve months of data for this project, I set to work looking for any trends and anything that may hinder the analysis.
One surprise I found early on when working with this dataset was the large amount of null values that were present for the start station and end station fields, effectively rendering those data points as meaningless so to work around this I made sure to filter these data points out.
One way I went about attempting to answer the business question assigned to me was to create a new field titled mean ride length, to see if the average amount of time a user rode a Cyclistic bike was subject to seasonal flucuations. I then created a pivot table for all twelve months of data which broke down the average ride length not just by user type, but by the type of bike used as well. This was when another interesting finding emerged, as I found out that casual riders had access to a type of bike the annual members did not. Additionally, this exclusive type of bike had by far and away the longest average ride length of all categories.  I was also curious to know whether or not any significant differences existed with regard to the most popular starting and ending stations for both of Cyclistic's user types, if one group clearly favored one station, then would it make sense for the company to focus a majority of their efforts into ensuring that said station was larger and/or in top operating condition at all times?  In the interest of brevity, I composed a few SQL queries that only returned each user types most popular starting and ending stations. The results of this endeavor weren't nearly as profound as I thought they might be, as while there were some differences in each user types favorite stations, there wasn't anything that I could deduce as being part of a larger trend or pattern. Nevertheless, I then took the results of these queries and the data provided by the pivot tables and composed a data visualization from them in an attempt to tie everything together. 


The data visualization in question can be found at the link here: https://public.tableau.com/app/profile/david.m.1959/viz/GoogleDataAnalystCapstoneDataViz/RideableTypeTrends?publish=yes
